windows/2-windows-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md, before:

# Install VSCode

> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

## Download VS Code
- [ ] Visit [VSCode's download page](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) and select the `User Installer 64 bit` download - unless you have a `32 bit version of Windows`.
- [ ] Once the download is complete, run it from your browser's download bar.
- [ ] Launch VSCode and make sure to pin the software to the Taskbar for future access.
---
## Install VSCode Extensions

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

- [ ] [Setup VSCode Extensions](../vscode-setup-instructions.md)
---
## Set Default Terminal in VSCode to Git Bash

- [ ] Open VSCode
- [ ] Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` or `F1` which will open the command palette
- [ ] Type: `Terminal: Select Default Profile` (you don't need to type this fully) and press enter on this option or click on it.
- [ ] Select `Git Bash` as the default terminal (by pressing enter on that option or click on it).
---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| [Step 1 Install git & Git Bash](1-windows-setup-instructions-git-install.md) | [Step 3 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](3-windows-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |

Commit message:

added some more navigations, fixed some table of contents issues

windows/2-windows-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md, after:

# Install VSCode

> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

## Download VS Code
- [ ] Visit [VSCode's download page](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) and select the `User Installer 64 bit` download - unless you have a `32 bit version of Windows`.
- [ ] Once the download is complete, run it from your browser's download bar.
- [ ] Launch VSCode and make sure to pin the software to the Taskbar for future access.
---
## Install VSCode Extensions

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

- [ ] [Setup VSCode Extensions](../vscode-setup-instructions.md)
---
## Set Default Terminal in VSCode to Git Bash

- [ ] Open VSCode
- [ ] Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` or `F1` which will open the command palette
- [ ] Type: `Terminal: Select Default Profile` (you don't need to type this fully) and press enter on this option or click on it.
- [ ] Select `Git Bash` as the default terminal (by pressing enter on that option or click on it).

---

[Return to the table of comments at the top of this page](#table-of-contents)

---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| [Step 1 Install git & Git Bash](1-windows-setup-instructions-git-install.md) | [Step 3 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](3-windows-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |
