windows-setup-instructions.md, before:

# Windows Setup Instructions

## Setting up Command Prompt

The Terminal is a program that developers use to run commands that tell the operating system (or another program), to perform specific tasks.

With the Terminal program we can install softwares that can be run from the terminal that perform really useful tasks for developers (such as creating an empty starter project, to running our project and so on).

## Install git & Git Bash

`git` is a program that allows developers to create snapshots of their code (backups) so that it is very easy to go back to a previous version in case we make some big mistakes in our code, or collaborate with other developers, when we end up writing code in the same files.

(PATH setup?)

## Install VSCode

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

1. Visit [VSCode's download page](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
2. Download the Windows version
3. Once downloaded, open File Explorer and locate the file in the `Downloads` folder. You might need to double click on the `.zip` file in order to unzip the file and obtain the `Visual Studio Code.app`
4. Drag `Visual Studio Code.app` to your `Applications` folder.
5. Launch the application and pin the application to your launchbar, the same way as we did for the Terminal app.

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

[Setup VSCode Extensions](vscode-setup-instructions.md)

## Install NodeJS

## Setup SSH Keys for Github

### Adding SSH Keys onto Github account

Commit message:

Completed macOS guide draft and added more content for Windows

windows-setup-instructions.md, after:

# Windows Setup Instructions

There are 5 steps in this guide:

1. Setup Command Prompt
2. Install git & Git Bash
3. Install Visual Studio Code
4. Install NodeJS
5. Setup SSH Keys for GitHub

## 1| Setting up Command Prompt

The Terminal is a program that developers use to run commands that tell the operating system (or another program), to perform specific tasks.

With the Terminal program we can install softwares that can be run from the terminal that perform really useful tasks for developers (such as creating an empty starter project, to running our project and so on).

## 2| Install git & Git Bash

`git` is a program that allows developers to create snapshots of their code (backups) so that it is very easy to go back to a previous version in case we make some big mistakes in our code, or collaborate with other developers, when we end up writing code in the same files.

(PATH setup?)

## 3| Install VSCode

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

1. Visit [VSCode's download page](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
2. Download the Windows version
3. Once downloaded, open File Explorer and locate the file in the `Downloads` folder. You might need to double click on the `.zip` file in order to unzip the file and obtain the `Visual Studio Code.app`
4. Drag `Visual Studio Code.app` to your `Applications` folder.
5. Launch the application and pin the application to your launchbar, the same way as we did for the Terminal app.

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

[Setup VSCode Extensions](vscode-setup-instructions.md)

## 4| Install NodeJS

[NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) is a runtime environment for JavaScript. It allows us to build and run javascript applications. We shall make extensive use of this throughout the course.

## 5| Setup SSH Keys for Github

An SSH key is an access credential for the SSH (secure shell) network protocol. This authenticated and encrypted secure network protocol is used for remote communication between machines on an unsecured open network. SSH is used for remote file transfer, network management, and remote operating system access.

We will need SSH Keys in order to push our code to GitHub.

### Adding SSH Keys onto Github account
