macos/1-macos-setup-instructions-terminal-setup.md, before:

# Table of Contents
| MacOS |
| ---------- |
| [macOS Setup Instructions](1-macos-setup-instructions-terminal-setup.md) |
| [Step 2 Install Git](2-macos-setup-instructions-install-git.md) |
| [Step 3 Install Homebrew](3-macos-setup-instructions-homebrew.md) |
| [Step 4 Install VS Code](4-macos-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md) |
| [Step 5 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](5-macos-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |
| [Step 6 Setup SSH Keys for Github](6-macos-setup-instructions-setup-ssh.md) |
| [Step 7 Change macOS Settings](7-macos-setup-instructions-change-settings.md) |
# Setting up Terminal.app

>The Terminal is a program that developers use to run commands that tell the operating system (or another program), to perform specific tasks.
With the Terminal program we can install softwares that can be run from the terminal that perform really useful tasks for developers (such as creating an empty starter project, to running our project and so on).

On macOS we can launch the terminal in the following ways.

**Option 1:** from spotlight search.

- Press `CMD+Space` on your keyboard
- In the search bar, type "Terminal"
- Press enter or click on the Terminal application

![Launch Terminal.app](../images/macOSTerminalLaunchSpotlight.png)

> _Note_ - in your Spotligh Search, `Terminal.app` might just be called `Terminal` without the `.app` at the end. It corresponds to the same program.

**Option 2:** from Launchpad

- Open Launchpad
- In the search bar, type "Terminal"
- Click to open the terminal app

![Launchpad](../images/macOSLaunchpadIcon.png)

**Launch & add to Launchbar**

1. Launch the Terminal application using one of the options above
2. In the Launcher toolbar, right-click on the Terminal App -> Options -> Keep in Dock
3. You can now launch the Terminal by clicking in the launcher toolbar

![Pin to Launchbar](../images/macOSTerminalPinToToolbar.png)

---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| - | [Step 2 Install Git](2-macos-setup-instructions-install-git.md) |

Commit message:

added some more navigations, fixed some table of contents issues

macos/1-macos-setup-instructions-terminal-setup.md, after:

# Table of Contents
| MacOS |
| ---------- |
| [macOS Setup Instructions](1-macos-setup-instructions-terminal-setup.md) |
| [Step 2 Install Git](2-macos-setup-instructions-install-git.md) |
| [Step 3 Install Homebrew](3-macos-setup-instructions-homebrew.md) |
| [Step 4 Install VS Code](4-macos-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md) |
| [Step 5 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](5-macos-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |
| [Step 6 Setup SSH Keys for Github](6-macos-setup-instructions-setup-ssh.md) |
| [Step 7 Change macOS Settings](7-macos-setup-instructions-change-settings.md) |
# Setting up Terminal.app

>The Terminal is a program that developers use to run commands that tell the operating system (or another program), to perform specific tasks.
With the Terminal program we can install softwares that can be run from the terminal that perform really useful tasks for developers (such as creating an empty starter project, to running our project and so on).

On macOS we can launch the terminal in the following ways.

**Option 1:** from spotlight search.

- Press `CMD+Space` on your keyboard
- In the search bar, type "Terminal"
- Press enter or click on the Terminal application

![Launch Terminal.app](../images/macOSTerminalLaunchSpotlight.png)

> _Note_ - in your Spotligh Search, `Terminal.app` might just be called `Terminal` without the `.app` at the end. It corresponds to the same program.

**Option 2:** from Launchpad

- Open Launchpad
- In the search bar, type "Terminal"
- Click to open the terminal app

![Launchpad](../images/macOSLaunchpadIcon.png)

**Launch & add to Launchbar**

1. Launch the Terminal application using one of the options above
2. In the Launcher toolbar, right-click on the Terminal App -> Options -> Keep in Dock
3. You can now launch the Terminal by clicking in the launcher toolbar

![Pin to Launchbar](../images/macOSTerminalPinToToolbar.png)

---

[Return to the table of comments at the top of this page](#table-of-contents)

---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| - | [Step 2 Install Git](2-macos-setup-instructions-install-git.md) |
