macos/4-macos-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md, before:

# Install VSCode
> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

> Note: we recommend installing VSCode using `brew` because `brew` takes care of several additional setup steps that are time consuming to do manually (for example, being able to open VSCode from the terminal).

1. Open Terminal app
2. Make sure you have updated `brew` with

   ```bash
   brew update
   ```

3. Run the following command that will take care of installing VSCode for you

   ```bash
   brew install --cask visual-studio-code
   ```

4. Launch the application by running `code` as a command in the terminal
5. Pin the application to your launchbar, the same way as we did for the Terminal app so that you have quick access to it.

## Install additional VSCode Extensions

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

- [ ] [Setup VSCode Extensions](../vscode-setup-instructions.md)
---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| [Step 3 Install Homebrew](3-macos-setup-instructions-homebrew.md) | [Step 5 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](5-macos-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |

Commit message:

added some more navigations, fixed some table of contents issues

macos/4-macos-setup-instructions-vscode-install.md, after:

# Install VSCode
> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a code editor. It allows us to manage the files in a project and to edit the code that we write. It comes with a large number of very useful features that make development faster and easier. We can also improve its functionality by installing many extensions.

> Note: we recommend installing VSCode using `brew` because `brew` takes care of several additional setup steps that are time consuming to do manually (for example, being able to open VSCode from the terminal).

1. Open Terminal app
2. Make sure you have updated `brew` with

   ```bash
   brew update
   ```

3. Run the following command that will take care of installing VSCode for you

   ```bash
   brew install --cask visual-studio-code
   ```

4. Launch the application by running `code` as a command in the terminal
5. Pin the application to your launchbar, the same way as we did for the Terminal app so that you have quick access to it.

## Install additional VSCode Extensions

Now follow the instructions for setting up the extensions for VS Code.

- [ ] [Setup VSCode Extensions](../vscode-setup-instructions.md)
  
---

[Return to the table of comments at the top of this page](#table-of-contents)

---
| Previous | Next |
| ----- | ---------- |
| [Step 3 Install Homebrew](3-macos-setup-instructions-homebrew.md) | [Step 5 Install Install NVM and NodeJS](5-macos-setup-instructions-node-install.md) |
